Create new markdown file and file structure (#2533)
travis-ci/docs-travis-ci-com: user/multi-cpu-architectures.md

---
title: Building on Multiple CPU Architectures
layout: en
permalink: /user/multi-cpu-architectures/
---

> This is an alpha stage of this feature and we are [eager to hear back from you](https://travis-ci.community/t/about-the-arm-cpu-architecture-category/5336). The relevant keys structure in .travis.yml may be further adapted on short notice.
{: .alpha}

> > `Arm`-based building is only available for Open Source repositories (at both travis-ci.org and travis-ci.com). While available to all Open Source repositories, the concurrency available of `Arm`-based jobs is limited during the alpha period. An attempt to run `Arm`-based build for a e.g. private repository will result in a build run on standard, non-`Arm` infrastructure. For any commercial queries with regards to multi-arch builds before they are available, please contact [us](support@travis-ci.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `Arm`-based building is only available for Open Source repositories (at both travis-ci.org and travis-ci.com). While available to all Open Source repositories, the concurrency available for `Arm`-based jobs is limited during the alpha period. 
> An attempt to run `Arm`-based build for a private repository will result in a build run on standard, non-`Arm` infrastructure. For any commercial queries with regards to multi-arch builds before they are available, please contact [us](support@travis-ci.com).
```

---
title: Building on Multiple CPU Architectures
layout: en
permalink: /user/multi-cpu-architectures/
---

> > This is an alpha stage of this feature and we are [eager to hear back from you](https://travis-ci.community/t/about-the-arm-cpu-architecture-category/5336). The relevant keys structure in .travis.yml may be further adapted on short notice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This is an alpha stage of this feature and we are [eager to hear back from you](https://travis-ci.community/t/about-the-arm-cpu-architecture-category/5336). The definition keys used in the `.travis.yml` file may be further adapted on short notice.
```

{: .alpha}

> `Arm`-based building is only available for Open Source repositories (at both travis-ci.org and travis-ci.com). While available to all Open Source repositories, the concurrency available for `Arm`-based jobs is limited during the alpha period. 
> An attempt to run `Arm`-based build for a private repository will result in a build run on standard, non-`Arm` infrastructure. For any commercial queries with regards to multi-arch builds before they are available, please contact [us](support@travis-ci.com).

If your code is used on multiple CPU architectures it probably should be tested on multiple CPU architectures. Travis CI can test on amd64 and arm64 (run on ARMv8 compliant CPUs) if the operating system is Linux.

> To enable testing on multiple operating systems add the `os` key to your `.travis.yml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable testing on multiple CPU architectures add the `arch` key to your `.travis.yml`:
```

```yaml
arch:
  - amd64
  - arm64

> os: linux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
os: linux  # different CPU architectures are only supported on Linux
```

```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

If you are already using a [build matrix](/user/customizing-the-build/#build-matrix) to test multiple versions, the `arch` key also multiplies the matrix.

## Example Multi Architecture Build Matrix

> Here’s an example of a `.travis.yml` file using the `arch` key to compile against both `amd64` and `arm64` under Linux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here’s an example of a `.travis.yml` file using the `arch` key to compile against both `amd64` and `arm64` under Linux and using C as the programming language.
```

```yaml
language: c

arch:
  - amd64
  - arm64

compiler:
  - gcc
  - clang

install: skip

script:
  - cd src
  - make all
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

> Which would create 2x2 [build matrix](/user/customizing-the-build/#build-matrix): compilers x each architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.travis.yml` file above would create 2x2 [build matrix](/user/customizing-the-build/#build-matrix): compilers x each architecture.
```

> There are many options available and using the `matrix.include` key is essential to include any specific entries. For example, this matrix would route builds to the arm64 and amd64 architecture queues:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many options available and using the `matrix.include` key is essential to include any specific entries. For example, this matrix would route builds to the arm64 and amd64 architecture environments:
```

```yaml
matrix:
  include:
   - os: linux
     arch: amd64
   - os: linux
     arch: arm64
```

> > Please note, that explicitly included builds inherit the first value in an array, i.e.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Please note, that explicitly included builds inherit the first value in an array, for example:
```
